MINISTRY OF NATIONAL FOOD SECURITY AND RESEARCH 
PAK SECRATRIAT, ISLAMABAD (https://mnfsr.gov.pk/) 
PROJECT PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT UNIT (PPDU) 
                               PHONE # 051-9204650 

REQUEST FOR PROPOSALS 

HIRING OF SERVICES FOR DIGITAL 
TRANSFORMATION OF MNFSR 

The  Ministry  of  National  Food  Security  and  Research,  Government  of  Pakistan  invites  Request  for 
Proposal (“RFP”) under the project “Project Planning and Development Unit” for engagement of top-
tier national firm capable of Designing & Development, Testing, Deployment and Commissioning of: 

i.  Pakistan Agri Trade Portal (PATP) 

a.  Pakistan Agri Trade Supply Chain Dashboards. 

ii.  Development & Deployment of Knowledge Management System (KMS) 
iii.  Development of Ministry’s Internal Business Operation Systems 

a.  Vehicle Management System 
b.  Inventory Management System 
c.  PSDP Management System 
d.  International Collaboration (IC) Management System 

2. 
Single Stage – Two Envelopes (Quality and Cost Based) procedure will be adopted under Rule 
36  (b)  of  PPRA  Rules-2004.  The  sealed  bids,  complete  in  all  respects,  should  be  submitted  through 
EPADS, and the original DD/ P.O. must be substantiated to MNFSR via registered courier. Sealed bids 
are invited from Firms registered with Sales Tax / Income Tax Departments / relevant authorities. 

The closing time for receiving the bids is 22nd September 2025, till 02:00 PM; which shall be 
3. 
opened publicly on the same date at 02:30 PM at MNFSR, Pak Secretariat, Block B, 3rd floor, Room 
No. 330, PPDU Support Unit. 

4. 
The tender documents along with detailed terms and conditions can be obtained (free of cost) 
from the office of the PPDU Pak Secretariat, 3rd Floor, Islamabad, during office hours and available on 
PPRA  web  portal  (https://ppra.gov.pk),  PPRA’s  EPADS  (https://eprocure.gov.pk)  and  the  official 
website of MNFSR (https://mnfsr.gov.pk). No bid shall be entertained if not applied through EPADS. 

5. 

All terms and conditions contained in the RFP / Bidding Documents shall apply. 

MNFSR reserves the right to accept or reject any or all bids/proposals in accordance with PPRA 

6. 
Rules-2004.  

Project Manager-PPDU 
Ministry of National Food Security Islamabad 
051-9204650 

Page 1 of 49 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
REQUEST FOR PROPOSALS  

HIRING OF SERVICES FOR DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION OF 
MNFSR 

MINISTRY OF NATIONAL FOOD SECURITY AND RESEARCH 
PROJECT PLANNING AND DVELOPMENT UNIT (PPDU) 
GOVERNMENT OF PAKISTAN  

  SEPTEMBER 2025 

 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
Contents  

Part I. INSTRUCTIONS TO BIDDERS ......................................................................................................... 4 

Part II. SCOPE OF WORK ............................................................................................................................. 8 

2.1 

Introduction ..................................................................................................................................... 8 

2.2  Objective ......................................................................................................................................... 8 

2.3 

Conceptual Framework ................................................................................................................... 9 

2.4  

Specific Terms of References ........................................................................................................ 10 

2.5 

Timelines & Payment Schedule .................................................................................................... 14 

2.6   Key Personals Education /Experience ........................................................................................... 15 

2.7   Evaluation Criteria ........................................................................................................................ 17 

2.8       Scoring .......................................................................................................................................... 18 

Part III. TECHNICAL PROPOSAL SUBMISSION FORM ........................................................................ 19 

Part IV. FINANCIAL PROPOSAL SUBMISSION FORMS ....................................................................... 25 

Part V. FORM OF AGREEMENT FOR SERVICES .................................................................................... 28 

Part VI. INTEGRITY PACT ......................................................................................................................... 49 

Page 3 of 49 

  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
Part I. INSTRUCTIONS TO BIDDERS  

1. INTRODUCTION AND PURPOSE OF THE RFP  

(a)  This  Request  for  Proposals  (RFP)  is  being  issued  by  the  MNFSR,  Government  of  Pakistan  (the 
“Client”), under the project “Project Planning and Development Unit” for engagement of top-tier 
national  firms  capable  of  establishing  Pakistan  Agri  Trade  Portal,  Supply  Chain  Dashboard, 
Knowledge Management System (KMS) and Internal Business Operation Systems that is in line 
with MNFSR’s developmental goals.  

(b)  The primary purpose of this RFP is to select and contract a firm that will offer expert support to 
MNFSR (the “Client”) for purposes of operationalization, Development, Testing, Deployment, and 
Commissioning  of  the  Pakistan  Agri  Trade  Portal,  Supply  Chain  Dashboards,  Knowledge 
Management System (KMS) and Internal Business Operation Systems. 

(c)  Pursuant to the PPRA Approved Framework, the tender notice for this RFP has been published on 

the Client’s website and PPRA website.  

(d)  The Client reserves the right to cancel the procurement process under this RFP at any time (or to re-
tender with amended terms and conditions, including with respect to the category of shortlisted firms) 
before  the  execution  of  the  Agreement  for  Services,  at  which  stage  the  provisions  of  the  said 
agreement will be applicable with respect to the term and termination of the arrangement.   

2. SCOPE OF WORK  

(a)  This scope of work to be performed by the Firm selected under this RFP is set forth in Part II of this 

RFP.  

(b)  Work  performed  under  this  engagement  will  be reviewed  by  the  Client.  Firm  will  be  required  to 

provide regular updates to the Client through progress reports.   

(c)  All  materials  and  documents  produced  during  this  engagement  shall  be  the  property  of  the 

Government of Pakistan and must be treated as confidential unless stated otherwise.   

3. SUBMISSION REQUIREMENTS   

i.  The tender should be filled in carefully (preferably typed). No correction/alteration is allowed. Each 

page must be signed and stamped. Incomplete forms will not be accepted.  

ii.  Single  Stage  -  Two  Envelopes  (Quality  and  Cost  Based)  Bidding Procedure  specified  in  the  Public 
Procurement Rules,2004 shall be followed for receiving and processing the bids. Bid Security not less 
than  Rs.  240,000/-  as  mentioned  in  Tender  Documents  in  the  shape  of  Pay  Order/Bank  Draft  is 
required in the name of the Project Manager PPDU, MNFSR Pak Secretariat, Islamabad. Neither 
personal cheques nor the bids received without earnest money will be accepted.  

iii.  The bid validity period is 60 days from the date of publication. 
iv.  In  case,  the  tender  is  accepted  by  the  competent  authority,  the  earnest  money  will  be  retained  till 
completion of the agreement period. However, the earnest money of the unsuccessful bidders will be 
returned on receipt of a written request.  

Page 4 of 49 

  
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
v.  The offered rates should include GST/Government taxes, delivery, installation and necessary software 

charges etc. 

vi.  National Tax No., GST Registration Number and Vendor Number and must be indicated by each bidder 

on the letterhead. 

vii. Any lapse in fulfilling requirements or any other stipulated condition (s) in the tender shall render the 

bid liable to rejection. 

viii. 

The contract will be awarded to the highest evaluated bidder as the Most Advantageous Bid 
after approval by the Procurement Committee / Competent Authority, whose decision will be treated 
as final. 

ix.  The result of the bid evaluation under Rule 35 of PP Rules, 2004 will be announced fifteen days prior 
to  the  award  of  contract  to  the  successful  bidder.  In  case  of  any  complaint  of  bidder,  a  Redressal 
Grievance Committee already constituted in the MNFSR will address the grievances.  

x.  The procuring Agency may reject all the bids or proposals at any time prior to the acceptance of a bid 

or proposal under rule 33 of the Rules ibid.  

xi.  The interested firms must give full address of their Head Office & Branch Offices with Telephone/Fax 

Numbers and contact persons on the letterhead. 

xii. Income Tax/any other tax, if leviable, will be deducted at  source on the  prescribed  rate for onward 

payment to the Income Tax Department/Government. 

1 

Issuance of RFP on E-PADS 

7th September 2025 

2  Deadline  for  submission  of  clarification 

questions  

15th September 2025, 2.00 PM 
Clarification questions may be submitted to the 
following email address: mukhanpm@gmail.com 

3  Deadline for submission of proposals    Date: 22nd September 

4  Deadline  for  Opening  of  Technical 

Proposals 

Time : 2.00 PM 
Date: 22nd September 
Time : 2.30 PM 

4. PROJECT SCHEDULE AND KEY TIMEFRAMES   

(a)  The consultant shall commence the services within seven (07) days of the execution of the Agreement 

for Services.   

(b)  Regular  progress  meetings  will  be  held  between  the  Client  and  the  Consultant  to  review  project 

milestones, address issues, and ensure alignment with the project objectives.  

(c)  Any extensions or modifications to the timeline or scope of work will be documented and require 
mutual  written  agreement  between  the  Client  and  the  Consultant,  ensuring  that  adjustments  are 
justified and agreed upon by the parties.  

(d)  Key project timeframes and set forth in Part II of this RFP. Services in connection with any specific 

assignment will be deemed completed when the Client has accepted the final deliverable(s).  

5. BASIC ELIGIBILITY CONDITIONS   

(a)  The Firms must be a legally registered entity in Pakistan. Further, it shall have the capacity to conduct 

business within the jurisdiction where the project will be implemented. (NTN, GST) 

Page 5 of 49 

  
  
  
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
(b)  The Firms must have proper protocols in place to ensure compliance with regulatory and statutory 

requirements applicable to their business practices.  

(c)  The Firms must not have a conflict of interest that could affect their performance under the contract. 
A statement and the Firms’ policies with respect to such conflicts must be included in the proposal.  
(d)  Consultants must adhere to applicable data protection laws and regulations, ensuring that any data 

collected or handled during the project is done so securely and ethically.   

6. TECHNICAL PROPOSAL SUBMISSION AND EVALUATION CRITERIA 

The selection will be based upon Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS): 

(a)  The bids shall be evaluated on a Quality & Cost Based Selection, 80% weightage being allotted to 

technical proposal. 

(b)  Technical  proposals  must  score  at  least  80  points  to  be  considered  for  financial  proposal  review. 

Proposals scoring below this threshold will be non-responsive. 

(c)  Technical Proposals must include an overview of the firm (up to 4 pages or 10 slides), including 

corporate information and evidence of capabilities.   

(d)  Technical proposals must include contact information of at least three references (of clients for whom 
the Firms has performed similar services in the past). The Client may at its discretion contact such 
references (and if required, the Firms shall facilitate such interaction).  

(e)  The evaluation criteria and point scoring criteria, as well as the related submission requirements, are 

mentioned in Section II of this RFP. 

7. FINANCIAL PROPOSAL SUBMISSION AND EVALUATION  

(a)  In accordance with the purposes, the evaluation process will prioritize technical quality/competence. 
In this regard, once the technical evaluations are complete, only the financial proposals of the bidders 
will be opened.  

(b)  The bids shall be evaluated on a Quality & Cost Based Selection, 20% weightage being allotted to 

financial proposals. 

(c)  The weightage of the marks obtained in the financial criteria shall be twenty percent (20%) and will 

be calculated as under:  

A = (Marks Obtained out of 100 of technical proposal) x 0.8 
B = [100 x (Lowest Financial Proposal Value/Financial Proposal Value to be evaluated)] x 0.2 
Final Score shall be calculated as per the following formula: Final Score = A + B 

xiii. 

The contract will be awarded to the firm obtaining highest Final Score (most advantageous 

bid). 

f)  Applicants must meet all the above minimum required qualification criteria to qualify. Failure to 

meet any of the above criteria will disqualify a bidder. 

g)  Financial Proposals must be submitted in accordance with the form set forth in Section IV of this 

RFP.   

Page 6 of 49 

  
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
      
 
 
 
 
8. AWARD AND AGREEMENT FOR THE FIRM 

(a)  The award will be made to the bidder which, following successful technical negotiations, agrees to 
the terms that best meet the project requirements and budget considerations. The Client reserves the 
right to negotiate with the bidders on specific aspects to ensure that the project objectives are fully 
met.  

(b)  In the event there is only a single bidder that submits a proposal, the Client may proceed to award 
the  contract  to  such  bidder;  provided  that  the  bidder  meets  the  minimum  threshold  set  for  the 
qualification of the Technical Proposal.  

(c)  Thereafter, an Agreement for Services (as set forth in Part V of this RFP) shall be executed with the 

successful bidder.   

(d)  Unless terminated earlier pursuant to terms of the Agreement for Services, the term of the contract 
shall be TWELVE (12) weeks. The parties may mutually agree to extend the Agreement for Services 
for a further period if deemed necessary.  

(e)  As part of enhancing transparency and fairness, an Integrity Pact (as set forth in Part VI of this RFP) 

must be signed by the Consultant.   

9. PAYMENT TERMS AND CONDITIONS  

(a)  Payments to the Consultant will be made upon satisfactory completion of the milestones set forth in 
the  Agreement  for  Services.  Each  payment  will  require  the  submission  of  detailed  reports  and 
deliverables as specified in the contract as mentioned in Section II. 

(b)  All payments shall be made in Pakistani Rupees.  
(c)  Applicable withholding taxes will be deducted at source as per the laws of Pakistan.  

Page 7 of 49 

  
  
  
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
Part II. SCOPE OF WORK  

2.1 

Introduction  

Agriculture is a critical sector of Pakistan's economy, contributing significantly to GDP, employment, and 
food security. The need for a robust, data-driven platform to monitor and manage domestic agricultural trade 
and supply has become paramount. 

The Ministry of National  Food Security &  Research is  primarily responsible to  ensure food security  and 
promoting agricultural product development within the country and also manages Import / Export control on 
essential Commodities (Wheat, Rice, Wheat Flour, Sugar, Pulses (Grain), Mung, Mash, Masoor, Chicken, 
Mutton,  Beef,  Eggs,  Palm  oils,  Soyabean  oils,  Canola  oils,  Potatoes, Onion,  Tomato,  Garlic, Banana, 
Cirtus, Dates, Mango, Fish, Fish Products, Sesame seeds). 

The Ministry of National Food Security & Research operates without a Centralized Digital platform and 
striving to streamline its Agro supply chain management to analyze demand and supply data of Agri products, 
leading to inefficiencies in decision making and reduced competitiveness in global / international market. 

The Digital Transformation of MNFSR aims to provide real-time data visualization, analytics, and decision-
making  tools  to  stakeholders,  including  government  agencies,  farmers,  traders,  policymakers  and  other 
relevant stakeholders. 

2.2  Objective 

The  primary  objective  of  this  assignment  is  to  identify  and  select  the  firm  with  proven  experience  in 
development  of  Web  Portals,  Agri  trade  Commodities  dashboards,  Development  /  Implementation  of 
Knowledge  Management  System  and  Development  of  Internal  Business  Operation  Modules  (Vehicle 
Management  System,  Inventory  Management  System,  PSDP  Management  System,  International 
Collaboration (IC) Management System). The firm will design & develop, test, deploy, and commission 
these systems. 
It will boost Pakistan’s competitiveness in global / international trade markets by identifying high demand 
products  and  target  regions  and  to  further  enhance  ministry  capacity  to  market  evidence-based  decisions 
regarding  export  strategies.  Facilitate  data  sharing  and  collaboration  among  key  stakeholders,  including 
farmers, exporters and policy makers and address stakeholder complaints through an integrated grievance 
resolution system. The digital transformation will enhance MNFSR capability to: 

i  Enhancing Agricultural Knowledge Management and Accessibility. 
ii  Knowledge sharing through digital repository. 
iii  Improving Supply Chain Efficiency and Trade Transparency. 
iv  Empowering Farmers and Stakeholders through Digital Inclusion. 
v  Strengthening International Competitiveness and Climate Resilience. 
vi  Ensuring System Interoperability and Long-Term Sustainability. 
vii  Streamlining Business Operations for Enhanced Governance. 

Page 8 of 49 

  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.3 

Conceptual Framework 

The firm will be required to design & develop, test, deploy, and commission Pakistan Agri Trade Portal, 
Knowledge  Management  System  and  Ministry  Internal  Business  Operation  Systems  that  provides 
comprehensive  information  on  domestic  and  International  agricultural  trade  and  supply  develop  for  the 
Client. The Pakistan Agri Trade Portal and dashboards should enable real-time monitoring, reporting, and 
analysis  of  agricultural  commodities,  facilitating  better  decision-making  and  policy  formulation  by 
completing the following scope of work: 

The PATP and dashboards will cover the following commodities: 

a)  Main Crops: Wheat, Rice, Wheat Flour, Sugar. 
b)  Meat & Poultry: Chicken, Mutton, Beef, Eggs. 
c)  Edible Oils: Palm oils, soyabean oils. 
d)  Vegetables: Potatoes, Onion, Tomato, Garlic. 
e)  Fruits: Banana, Citrus, Dates, Mango, Apple. 
f)  Aqua: Fish and Fish Products 
g)  Seeds: Sesame seeds and oils 

Conceptual Framework and Stakeholder Engagement 

Stakeholder 
Farmers 

Policy Makers 

Trader 

Industry 
Representatives 

Focus area 
Crop  yields,  cultivation  trends,  and 
weather data. 
Market prices and demand forecasts. 
and 
Subsidies, 
government support details 

loan  programs, 

balances, 

import/export 

National production and consumption 
trends. 
Trade 
statistics. 
Policy impacts on supply chains and 
market stability. 
International  demand  and  price 
trends. 
Export compliance and regulations. 
Trade agreements and market access 
opportunities. 
Raw  material  availability  and  price 
trends. 
Supply chain bottlenecks and risks. 
Industry-specific market analytics. 

Functionality 
Alerts  for  optimal  sowing  and  harvesting 
times. 
Price  comparisons  for  fertilizers,  seeds,  and 
pesticides. 
Training 
techniques. 
Scenario analysis for policy decisions. 
Regional and commodity-specific insights. 
Data-driven 
security and trade policies. 

recommendations 

for  modern 

resources 

farming 

food 

for 

on 

trade 

global 

tracking 

Export readiness assessment tools. 
Real-time 
updates 
opportunities. 
Logistics 
optimization. 
Predictive 
fluctuations. 
Supplier and distributor performance tracking. 
Cost-benefit analysis for production inputs. 

supply-demand 

analytics 

supply 

chain 

and 

for 

Page 9 of 49 

  
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.4  

Specific Terms of References  

The Terms of Refences are mentioned below for Digital transformation of MNFSR will include but not be 
limited to these: (the Consultant may be taken onboard for discussion/negotiations by the Client during the 
technical proposal evaluation for any amendments needed following implementation.) 

2.4.1 Pakistan Agri Trade Portal 

Dashboard Visualization  

1.  The consultant will develop an interactive dashboard with charts, graphs, maps, search filters, drill-
down functionality, and tooltips to explore and visualize key metrics on Agro-Commodities (Prices, 
Production, Consumption, Stock Position). 

2.  The consultant will tailor Group / Role based Dashboard for Farmers, Policymakers, Traders, Industry 

representatives, and Researchers. 

3.  The consultant will Integrate with domestic databases (production, consumption, stocking, pricing) 
through  APIs,  secured  data  feeds,  and  formal  agreements  with  PBS,  provincial  agriculture 
departments, PSW, SBP, and other agencies. 

4.  The  dashboard  should  be  Integrated  with  international  data  sources  (FAO,  UN  Comtrade,  ITC, 
Trademap, FAOSTAT, FPMA, etc.) through subscriptions to ensure uninterrupted global data access. 
5.  The  consultant  will  develop  analytical  tools  for  comparing  domestic  supply  with  international 
demand,  identifying  surpluses  for  export  and  deficits  requiring  import,  pricing  trend  analysis, 
competitor benchmarking, and emerging market opportunities. 

6.  The  dashboard  will  have  sustainable  data  access  mechanisms  through  API-based  integration, 

subscription connectors, and secured data pipelines. 

Pakistan Agri Trade Portal (PATP) 

1.  The portal should include the International Trade Prices of mentioned Commodities (Wheat, Rice, 
Sugar, Poultry, Meat, Fish Products, Sesame oil, Soyabean Oil, Palm Oil, Date, Mango, Cirtus, Apple, 
Potato) on daily / weekly basis. 

2.  The  portal  should  incorporate  structured  mechanisms  to  facilitate  the  Import  and  Export  of 
Commodities (Wheat, Rice, Sugar, Poultry, Meat, Fish Products, Sesame Oil, Soybean Oil, Palm Oil, 
Dates, Mangoes, Citrus, Apples, and Potatoes). 

3.  The  portal  must  provide  comprehensive  details,  formalities,  and  resources  to  assist  Farmers, 

Importers, and Exporters in their operations. 

4.  The  portal  should  offer  the  functionality  to  showcase  information  on  Suppliers  (National  and 

International) associated with Wheat, Rice, and Sugar commodities. 

5.  The portal should provide the provision of showing  information pertaining to Wheat (Total Floor 
Mills Name, Storage Capacity etc), Rice (Total Rice Mills Name, Storage Capacity etc) & Sugar 
(Total Sugar Mills Name, Storage Capacity etc) Commodity. 

6.  The  portal  should  develop  links  to  MNFSR,  attached  departments,  autonomous  bodies,  and  their 

applications. 

7.  The  portal  should  updated  details  of  government  schemes,  services,  and  advisories  relevant  to 

agriculture. 

8.  The portal should be linked to provincial agriculture departments (Punjab, Sindh, KP, Balochistan, 
GB, AJK) and federal government agriculture portals. Integration with  existing agriculture-related 
apps and portals (federal and provincial). 

Page 10 of 49 

  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9.  The portal should have role-based user registration with secure login and multi-factor authentication. 
10. The  portal  should  integrate  the  knowledge  Management  System  for  searchable  repositories  of 

policies, advisories, FAQs, and guides as per requirements. 

11. The portal will also have virtual consultation services with agriculture experts via chat/email and an 

AI-powered chatbot for FAQs. 

12. The portal should include Agri-related content sections including crop advisories, weather alerts, pest 
warnings, government/private programs, certified seed suppliers, loans/insurance (via ZTBL), and 
training resources (tutorials, manuals, online courses). 

13. The  portal  should  also  include  discussion  forums,  panel  discussions,  and  community  boards  for 

farmer–trader engagement on trending issues. 

14. The  portal  will  have  analytics  &  forecasting  tools  for  price  analysis,  crop  forecasting,  predictive 
supply-demand  modelling,  and  trade  facilitation  (export  readiness,  tariff  calculators,  trade 
documentation, market access). 

15. The portal should also have a grievance redressal/complaint system with digital submission forms 

and tracking for resolution of the complaint. 

16. It should have a direct access to Pakistan Agri Trade Supply Dashboards (Domestic & International 

versions). 

17. It should also have user engagement tools including social media integration, feedback mechanisms, 

periodic surveys, and usage analytics for continuous improvement. 

18. The portal should be available in multiple languages (English, Urdu etc) for accessibility. 
19. The portal should have compliance and design with strong security controls (ISO 27001:2022) and 

privacy by design principles (GDPR) to protect users personal and sensitive information. 

2.4.2   Knowledge Management System 

1.  The  Knowledge  Management  system  should  be  user  friendly  and  will  be  able  to  upload  large 

document files, videos, pictures and presentations. 

2.  The  Knowledge  Management  system  should  also  have  role-based  access  management  to  ensure 

secure and appropriate sharing of sensitive data. 

3.  The  Knowledge  Management  system  should  have  automated  alerts  system  regarding  new 

knowledge updates, critical policy changes, or ongoing projects. 

4.  The Firm will also be engaged for end-user training, documentation, and support post-deployment to 

ensure smooth transition and usability. 

5.  The Firm should also submit recommendations regarding post-commissioning maintenance, updates, 

and support, even if out of initial scope, for longer-term project sustainability. 

6.  The  Knowledge  Management  system  should  have  security  features  such  as  compliance  with  data 
protection regulations, encryption, access controls, and role-based permissions to protect sensitive 
data between users. 

7.  The system should have customizable scalability to grow with the organization and adapt to specific 

needs. 

8.  The system should have a user-friendly interface with collaboration tools for comments, co-editing, 

and feedback, supporting continuous improvement of knowledge 

9.  The  centralized  knowledge  management  system  should  be  able  to  organize  both  structured  and 
unstructured data with AI-driven categorization, tagging, and version control to ensure easy access 
and up-to-date information. 

Page 11 of 49 

  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
2.4.3  Vehicle Management System 

1.  The  consultant  will  develop  centralized  database  structure  for  all  Ministry-owned  and  their 

department vehicles with technical specifications and categorizations. 

2.  The consultant will link database with existing Dashboards and analytics for vehicle utilization rates, 

maintenance costs, and fuel expenditure trends. 

3.  The  consultant  will  create  modules  for  vehicle  registration,  allocation,  uploading  document, 
maintenance, fuel  consumption, mileage maintenance and life-cycle tracking  with  CRUD enabled 
records. 

4.  The system should be able to generate automated popup alerts for maintenance schedules, renewals, 

and compliance. 

5.  The consultant will implement Role-based access for administrators, drivers, and management. 
6.  The consultant will develop filter based, user-friendly query screens to retrieve vehicle data in tabular 

form. 

2.4.4    Inventory Management System 

1.  The consultant will develop centralized database structure for all Ministry assets and inventories with 

technical specifications and categorizations. 

2.  The consultant will link database with existing Dashboards and analytics showing current inventory 

value, asset location, and consumption patterns for forecasting and decision support. 

3.  The consultant will create modules for registration, management, requisition, uploading document 

approval workflows, issuance, returns, and disposal with CRUD enabled records. 

4.  The  system  generated  by  consultant  should  have  End-to-end  tracking  of  assets,  inventories, 

consumables, and office supplies. 

5.  The consultant will generate stock-level alerts, inventory reports, reorder management, tracking and 

audit trails. 

6.  The system should be able to develop filter-based query screens for access of data in tabular form 

with files attached. 

2.4.5   Public Sector Development Projects (PSDP) Management System 

1.  The system develop by the consultant should generate a centralized database structure for end-to-end 
project  lifecycle management of development  projects  initiation, planning, execution, monitoring, 
closure (PC-I to completion). 

2.  The system should be able to link database with existing Dashboards and analytics financial tracking 

(budget vs. expenditure) with variance analysis. 

3.  The consultant will develop CRUD-enabled document records with secure upload, edit, and archival 

functions. 

4.  The  consultant  should  create  modules  for  project  approval,  implementation  tracking,  resource 

allocation, and reporting, budgeting, expenditures, disbursements. 

5.  The  consultant  should  create  automated  mechanism  for  physical  progress  tracking,  milestone 

management, automated alerts for delays and budget overruns, document management 

6.  The consultant should create document repository for PC forms, progress reports, and evaluations. 
7.  The  consultant  should  develop  filter  based  query  screens  for  access  of  data  in  tabular  form  with 

documentation attached. 

Page 12 of 49 

  
  
  
 
 
2.4.6  International Collaboration Management System 

1.  The consultant will Develop centralized database structure for MOUs, MOIs, Protocols, Agreements, 

JWGs, and JMCs categorized by type, partner country, sector, and validity period. 

2.  The system will be able to link database with existing Dashboards and analytics for efficient decision 

making, actionable insights and tracking. 

3.  The system created by consultant should have automated workflows for drafting, review, approvals, 

payments, tracking and renewals. 

4.  The consultant should create mechanism for notifications and reminders for deadlines, renewals. 
5.  The  system  should  be  developed  with  searchable  document  repository  management  with  version 

control and CRUD enable records. 

6.  The system will be able to create reporting module for collaboration status, partner country profiles, 

and performance indicators. 

7.  The system should be able to develop filter-based query screens for access of data in tabular form 

with documentation attached. 

2.4.7  General Technical Requirements 

1.  The MNFSR is looking for the responsive Pakistan Agri Trade Portal to support mobile and desktop 
versions of Apple Safari, Google Chrome, Edge, and Mozilla Firefox. The portal should support all 
the updated and past versions of the browsers that have been released within the last 2 years. 

2.  MNFSR is looking to have the consultant to ensure that end-users can easily interact with the system 
through an integrated Content Management System (CMS), enabling non-technical staff to update, 
manage, and publish content without technical dependencies. 

3.  Licenses that are required to complete this project should be catered under the project cost and shall 

be mentioned separately in the Financial Proposal. 

4.  This is the main part. For Creation of Users, User Rights, Roles, Group, Role Management should be 
created / configured / Assigned from front-end Form. The flexibility is required where we can allow 
one or multiple users to assign multiple access rights (Read, Write, Add, Update, Delete, View etc) 
5.  Deploy  the  Digital  Portal,  Dashboards,  Knowledge  Management  System  (KMS),  Vehicle 
Management  System  (VMS),  Inventory  Management  System  (IMS),  PSDP  Management  System, 
International Collaboration (IC) Management System on a reliable server for optimal performance 
and security. 

6.  The  vendor  must  propose  the  Complete  Production  Server,  Backup  Server,  OS,  Database, 

Specification for successful deployment of systems in Technical Proposal.  

7.  Ministry of National Food Security & Research don’t have inhouse Data Centre hence deployment 

of systems on Government Cloud Server is Recommended.  

8.  In submitted proposal, vendor shall be able to produce a Service Level Agreement (SLA) that details 

guarantee of customer support as well as a service escalation process. 

9.  Any other relevant /corresponding task may be assigned by MNFSR during the consultancy period 

within the scope of this consultancy. 

Page 13 of 49 

  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.4.8  After Sales - Service Specifications  

 Following are the after-service specifications, the consultant is required to provide once the systems 
are approved and are on-line 

1.  The  vendor  shall  provide  structured  training  sessions,  including  user  manuals  and  system 
walkthroughs, ensuring MNFSR personnel can effectively operate the Web Portal, KMS & Internal 
Business Operation Software’s.  

2.  Training for IT team on system maintenance, troubleshooting, and software updates.  
3.  Overview of reporting, analytics, and compliance monitoring tools.  
4.  Minimum 03-year coverage, including on-site/off-site issue resolution and system updates. 
5.  24/7 support via phone and email for troubleshooting and operational queries.  
6.  The  consultant  must  ensure  the  availability  of  qualified  personnel  for  maintenance  and  urgent 

technical resolutions. 

7.  The consultant shall provide support services for three years, including software updates, security 

patches, and system optimizations.  

8.  The consultant must ensure structured data migration, preserving data integrity during transition. 
9.  The test on data validation and quality assurance must be performed before full deployment.  Support 

for existing data structures and formats to ensure seamless historical data access. 

10. The consultant shall ensure full compliance with the Government of Pakistan’s IT security policies, 

data governance standards, and procurement guidelines. 

11. The  consultant  will  deliver  a  mobile-responsive  and  cross-platform  compatible  UI/UX,  ensuring 

accessibility across devices (desktop, tablet, mobile). 

12. The consultant will incorporate data encryption (at rest and in transit), scheduled backups, disaster 

recovery mechanisms, and audit logging for traceability. 

13. The consultant will provide API-based integration capabilities to ensure smooth interoperability with 

other government platforms and third-party systems. 

14. The consultant will provide API-based integration capabilities to ensure smooth interoperability with 

other government platforms and third-party systems. 

15. The  consultant  will  support  secure  cloud  deployment  (public/private/hybrid)  with  commissioning 
services, including configuration, performance tuning, and handover of fully operational systems to 
the Ministry. 

16. The consultant will make sure to implement multi-factor authentication (MFA), intrusion detection, 
and strong encryption protocols to safeguard user and system data and implement robust database 
structures with role-based access controls (RBAC), ensuring integrity, confidentiality, and controlled 
access to information. 

Timelines & Payment Schedule  

2.5 
The  overall  assignment  will  span  a  period  of  12  weeks,  with  the  following  deliverables,  timelines,  and 
milestones.  

Page 14 of 49 

  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sr.No 

Deliverable / Milestone 

Payment Schedule  
Timeline 

1 

Detailed  project  plan 
including 
methodology,  timeline,  milestone 
chart (Gantt), resource allocation. 

01  Week 
after 
commencement  of 
the Assignment. 

Amount 
20%  upon  approval  of  inspection 
methodology, 
report 
implementation  plan 
(including 
timelines), milestone identification, 
resource & responsibility matrix. 

Submission, Presentation & 
Approval of Draft: 
1- Vehicle Management System 

2- Inventory Management System 

3- PSDP Management System 

2 

4- International Collaboration (IC) 
Management System 

5- Knowledge Management System 
(KMS) 

6- Pakistan Agri Trade Portal with 
Dashboards 

Training, Deployment, Go-Live, 
Commissioning & UAT Sign off : 
1- Vehicle Management System 
2- Inventory Management System 
3- PSDP Management System 
4- International Collaboration (IC) 
Management System 
5- Pakistan Agri Trade Portal with 
Dashboards 
6- Knowledge Management System 
(KMS) 

3 

03 Weeks after 
commencement of 
the Assignment  

05 Weeks after 
commencement of 
the Assignment  

06 Weeks after 
commencement of 
the Assignment  

08 Weeks after 
commencement of 
the Assignment  

40% upon approval of 6 digital 
systems by the ministry. 

12  Weeks 
after 
commencement  of 
the Assignment 

40% upon approval of successful 
deployment, Test Running, training 
and troubleshooting of these  6 
digital systems of the ministry 

2.6   Key Personals Education /Experience  

The Key Personals are the members of the Team responsible to execute the Project. One person against 
each specified position is Must. The number of persons against each position is subject to the Firm’s 
discretion to achieve deliverables on time. The education, experience and certifications mentioned in table 
below are added to the evaluation criteria of the Technical Proposal therefore mandatory. 

Page 15 of 49 

  
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
Certification 
PMP,  PRINCE  2,  or 
Agile/Scrum  Master 
certification preferred 

of 

Designing 

Knowledge 
agriculture/trade 
datasets, 
interactive Dashboard. 
Experience 
forecasting  and 
analysis. 

in 
trend 

. 

Role 
Project 
Manager 

Business 
Analyst 

in  Project 

Education 
Master’s 
Management, 
Computer  Science,  or 
related field 

Bachelor’s  /  Master’s 
in  CS  /  IT  or  relevant 
field  

Data Scientist 
/ Engineer  

Bachelor’s/Master’s  in 
Science, 
Computer 
Data  Engineering,  or 
Software  Engineering, 
Data Science. 

Full Stack 
Developers 

Bachelor’s 
in 
Computer  Science  or 
Software Engineering 

Experience 
8–10 years in IT project 
management, preferably with 
large-scale government/ 
international or agriculture-related 
projects. 
08 years of experience in 
Software / Web Development 
with minimum at least 03 years of 
proven experience as Business 
Analyst / Requirement Engineer. 
Experience in Agri Commodity  
Trading(National and 
International). 
5+  years  in  ETL  pipelines,  API 
database 
integration, 
management 
(PostgreSQL, 
MySQL, MongoDB). 

and 

of 

analytics, 

in 
(HTML, 

4–6  years  in  statistical  modeling, 
predictive 
and 
visualization  (Python,  R,  Power 
BI, Tableau, or Dash). 
demonstrated 
6+ 
years 
front-end 
proficiency 
technologies 
CSS, 
JavaScript,  and  frameworks  such 
as  Django/Flask,  React, 
or 
Angular),  back-end  development 
(PHP,  Python,  Java,  Node.js), 
REST/Fast  APIs,  and  database 
technologies  (SQL/NoSQL,  e.g., 
MySQL,  MongoDB).  Candidates 
strong 
must 
knowledge  of  version  control 
systems  (Git),  cloud  platforms 
authentication 
(AWS,  Azure), 
secure 
mechanisms, 
architecture  design.  Experience 
with  microservices,  server-side 
architecture, 
cloud-based 
and 
backend development is preferred. 

possess 

also 

and 

Cloud/DevOps 
Engineer  

in 
Bachelor’s 
Computer  Science  or 
Information Systems 

4–6 years in cloud hosting (AWS, 
Azure, 
CI/CD, 
GCP), 
Docker/Kubernetes. 

certification 
Cloud 
(AWS, Azure, or GCP) 
preferred 

Page 16 of 49 

  
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
2.7   Evaluation Criteria 

Category 

Sub-Criterion 

Submission Requirement 

I. Organization 
Capability & 
Relevant 
Experience  

a) Demonstrated experience in developing and 
large-scale 
deploying 
solutions, 
ICT 
information  systems,  digital 
trade/market 
portals, 
in 
agriculture, trade, or supply chain domains). 

and  dashboard 

(preferably 

b)  Prior  work  with  government  institutions, 
in 
ministries, 
digital platforms/ICT solutions. 

international  organizations 

Project  Completion  Reports  of  at  least  3  past 
projects of similar nature. Provide: 

i. Project title  
ii. Client name 
iii. Country/location  
iv. Duration (with start & completion dates) 
v. Technologies used 
vi. Description of key features and outcomes 

II. Technical 
Approach & 
Methodology 

c)  Demonstrated  capacity of  firm  (team  size, 
technical expertise, certifications, partnerships 
with technology providers). 

List  of  projects  with  documentary  evidence 
(contracts/LoAs/letters of completion) 
Organizational profile and certifications 

a)  Understanding  of  assignment,  scope  of 
work, and objectives. 

Narrative write-up/slide presentation outlining 
comprehension of assignment and context 

b)  Proposed  methodology,  workplan,  and 
approach  for  system  design,  development, 
testing, deployment, and commissioning. 

Detailed  technical  proposal  with  workplan, 
Gantt chart, milestones, and deliverables 

c) Proposed innovative solutions, use of open-
source 
capacity, 
user-friendliness, 
interoperability, 
sustainability, and scalability. 

integration 

platforms, 

Description  in  proposal  (including  any  fast-
track or phased implementation strategy) 

III. Proposed 
Personnel and 
Capacity  

Project Manager  

Business Analyst 

Detailed CV of Team Leader 

Detailed CVs of nominated team 

Data Scientist / Engineer  

Full Stack Developers 

Cloud/Dev Ops Engineer  

IV. After Sales 
Services 

a) Cost-effectiveness and value for money. 

Detailed proposal of after sales services 

Page 17 of 49 

  
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
      
 
 
 
2.8       Scoring 

Points Scoring As per Technical Evaluation Criteria (80%).  

Note:  

1.  Relative marking should be observed wherever deemed necessary. 

2.  Documentary Evidence must be submitted where applicable 

Sno  Requirements  

1 

Number of projects. [Number of satisfactorily and substantially completed 
similar projects.] 
3 + projects (national /international) 
1-2 projects 
0 projects 

2  Work with government / international organisations (05) 

Prior work with Govt institutions/ international organizations 
No work with Govt institutions/ international organizations 

3  Size and capacity of firm (15) 

At least 10 team members working with company for 5 years 
Partnerships with 10 companies (active) 
Experience in Deployment of System on Cloud based environment 

Points 

Total 10 

10 
05 
0 
Total 05 
05  
0 

Total 15 
05 
05 
05 

4  Understanding  of  assignment,  scope  of  work,  TORs  and  objectives.  (Firm 

Total 10 

may be called for the Presentation and clear demonstration of  

5  Proposed  methodology,  workplan,  and  approach  for  system  design, 

Total 10 

development, testing, deployment, and commissioning. 

6  Proposed  innovative  solutions,  use  of  open-source  platforms,  integration 
capacity, interoperability, user-friendliness, sustainability, and scalability. 

Total 10 

7 

Key personals  

a)  Project Manager as mentioned in section 2.6 
b)  Business Analyst as mentioned in section 2.6 
c)  Data Scientist / Engineer as mentioned in section 2.6 
d)  Full Stack Developer as mentioned in section 2.6 
e)  Cloud/Dev Ops Engineer as mentioned in section 2.6 

8  After Sales -Services (as mentioned in sections 2.4.8) 

  TOTAL 

Total 30  
09 
06 
05 
05 
05 

10 

100 

Page 18 of 49 

  
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
Part III. TECHNICAL PROPOSAL SUBMISSION FORM 

Instructions: Firms shall use the following form (to be printed on the firm’s letterhead) as cover note for 
their technical proposals.  

To 

The Procurement Committee 
Project Planning and Development Unit 
MNFSR, Islamabad. 

Dated:  

DD/MM/YR 

Subject: Technical Proposal in response to [Insert RFP Name and Number]   

Dear PPDU,  

We, the undersigned, offer to provide services in accordance with your Request for Proposal [Insert 
RFP No.] dated [Insert Date]. We are hereby submitting our proposal, which includes a Technical Proposal 
and a Financial Proposal.   

We hereby declare that all the information and statements made in this Proposal are true and accept that any 
misrepresentation contained herein may lead to our disqualification.  

We confirm that, based on our current best knowledge, there are no real or potential conflicts of interest 
involved in rendering services contemplated in the RFP. Our policy on dealing with conflicts of interest, 
should these arise, is also set out as per the attached. We acknowledge and agree that the Client has the right 
to determine whether there is any actual or potential conflict of interest in its sole discretion.  

If negotiations are held during the period of validity period set forth in the RFP, we undertake to negotiate 
on the basis of the proposed staff, methodology, and approach. Our Proposal is binding upon us, subject to 
any modifications resulting from negotiations prior to award.  

We undertake, if our Proposal is accepted, to initiate the services in accordance with the timeline set forth 
in RFP.  

We understand you are not bound to accept any Proposal you receive.  

Yours sincerely,  

[Authorized Signatory (In full and initials)] Name and 
Title of Signatory:  
Name of Firm:  
Address:  
Email address:   

Page 19 of 49 

  
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
FORM  TECH-I  CONSULTANT’S ORGANIZATION AND EXPERIENCE  

A - Organization  

[Provide here a brief (two pages) description of the background and organization of your firm/entity 
(including organogram) and each associate for this assignment.]  

B - Consultant’s Experience  
[Using the format below, provide information on each assignment for which your firm, and each associate 
for this assignment, was legally contracted as a corporate entity or as one of the major companies within 
an association, for carrying out consulting services similar to the ones requested under this Assignment. 
Use maximum 20 pages. Please provide Client’s certification and/or evidence of the contract agreement.]  

Assignment name:  

Cost of the Project  

Country:  
Location within country:  

Name of Client:  

Duration of assignment (months):  

Total No of staff-months (by your firm) on the 
assignment:  

Start date (month/year):  
Completion date (month/year):  

Total Value.  

Name of associated Consultants, if any:  

No of professional staff-months provided by associated 
Consultants:  

Name of senior professional staff of your firm involved and functions performed (indicate most significant 
profiles such as Project Director/Coordinator, Team Leader):  

Page 20 of 49 

  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
Narrative description of Project:  

Description of actual services provided by your staff within the assignment  

1.  Firms Name: ……………………………  
2.  Certificate by the Client / Employer that the work was successfully completed by the consultant.  

FORM  TECH-II  TEAM COMPOSITION AND TASK ASSIGNMENTS  

Professional 
Staff  

Name of Staff   CNIC 

Firm   Area of 

Position Assigned   Task Assigned  

No./Passport 
No.  

Expertise  

Page 21 of 49 

  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
FORM TECH-III CURRICULUM VITAE (CV) FOR PROPOSED STAFF 

1.  Proposed Position [only one candidate shall be nominated for each position]:   

2.  Name of Staff [Insert full name]:       

3. Date of Birth:    

4. Nationality:    

5. CNIC No (if Pakistani):   
6.  Education:   (relevant Degree Mentioned in Section 2) 

 or Passport No:   

Degree  

Major/Minor  

Institution  

Date (MM/YYYY)  

7.  Certification [mentioned in Section 2]:    

8.  Training [Indicate significant training Mentioned in Section 2]:    

9.  Employment Record [Starting with present position years of experience]  

Employer  

Position  

From 
(MM/YYYY)  

To (MM/YYYY)   Years of 

experience 
total 

10. Certification:  

Page 22 of 49 

  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
I, the undersigned, certify that to the best of my knowledge and belief, this CV correctly describes myself, 
my qualifications, and my experience.  I understand that any wilful misstatement described herein may lead 
to my disqualification or dismissal, if engaged.  

[Signature of staff member or authorized representative of the staff]  

Day/Month/Year  

 Date:    

Full name of authorized representative:    

FORM TECH-4   DESCRIPTION   OF   APPROACH,  METHODOLOGY AND WORK 
PLAN FOR PERFORMING THE  ASSIGNMENT  

[Technical approach, methodology and work plan are key components of the Technical Proposal.  You are 
suggested to present your Technical Proposal (50 pages, inclusive of charts and diagrams) divided into 
the following three chapters:  

a)  Technical Approach and Methodology,  
b)  Work Plan, and  
c)  Organization and Staffing,  

a) 
Technical Approach and Methodology.  In this chapter you should explain your understanding of 
the objectives of the assignment, approach to the services, methodology for carrying out the activities and 
obtaining the expected output, and the degree of detail of such output. You should highlight the problems 
being addressed and their importance, and explain the technical approach you would adopt to address them. 
You should also explain the methodologies you propose to adopt and highlight the compatibility of those 
methodologies with the proposed approach.  

b) 
Work Plan.  In this chapter you should propose the main activities of the assignment, their content 
and duration, phasing and interrelations, milestones (including interim approvals by the Client), and delivery 
dates  of  the  reports.  The  proposed  work  plan  should  be  consistent  with  the  technical  approach  and 
methodology, showing understanding of the TOR and ability to translate them into a feasible working plan. 
A list of the final documents, including reports, drawings, and tables to be delivered as final output, should 
be included here. The work plan should be consistent with the Scope of work Section 2 of RFP.   

c) 
Organization and Staffing.  In this chapter you should propose the structure and composition of your 
team.  You  should  list  the  main  disciplines  of  the  assignment,  the  key  expert  responsible,  and  proposed 
technical staff as mentioned is Tech Form 2 and 3. 

Page 23 of 49 

  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
Sr. 

No. 

1 

Scope of the work: 

Description of Tasks 

Tools used 

a.  Brief overview of the understanding of project objectives 

and key proposed solutions. 

b.  Agency Profile and Relevant Experience 

c.  Overview of the agency and examples of similar projects 

delivered. 

d.  Technical Approach and Methodology 

e.  Detailed plan for portal, dashboard, and system development 

including technology stack, security, API integrations, 

multi-language support, and data migration strategy. 

All necessary tools 

f.  Timeline, milestones, risk mitigation, communication and 

required for the 

training plans. 

g.  After-Sales Support and Maintenance plan. 

provision of services 

to MNFSR for the 

h.  Plan for SLA, support services, training, software updates, 

execution of tasks 

and maintenance. 

according to scope of 

i.  Team Composition and Expertise 

work.  

j.  Details of key personnel involved, roles, and qualifications. 

k.  Compliance and Security Measures 

l.  Data protection methods, user access controls. 

m.  Full financial proposal including licenses, hosting, 

development, training, and maintenance costs. 

Page 24 of 49 

  
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Part IV. FINANCIAL PROPOSAL SUBMISSION FORMS  
Instructions: Firms shall use the following form (to be printed on the firm’s letterhead) as cover note for 
their financial proposals.  

To 

The Procurement Committee 
Project Planning and Development Unit 
MNFSR, Islamabad. 

Dated:  

DD/MM/YR 

Subject: Financial Proposal in response to [Insert RFP Name and Number]   

Dear PPDU,  

In response to your Request for Proposal dated [Insert Date], we are submitting our financial proposal for 
the project titled “[Insert title of assignment].” This proposal aligns with the specifications detailed in the 
RFP and our Technical Proposal.  

In the attached Form FIN-1, we have presented our financial proposal. This proposal remains valid for the 
period specified in the RFP, and is subject to modifications as per the process specified under the RFP.   

We  understand  that  you  are  not  obligated  to  accept  any  proposal  you  receive,  and  the  in  the  event 
negotiations do not succeed, the Client may at its sole discretion proceed to negotiate with another qualified 
bidder.  

Yours sincerely,  

[Authorized Signatory (In full and initials)] Name and 
Title of Signatory:  
Name of Firm:  
Address:  
Email address:   

Page 25 of 49 

  
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
FIN-1. Financial Proposal  

Costs set forth below will include all costs* of the Consultant’s team associated with completion of the 
assignment.    

Cost (PKR) 

Comments (if any) 

Specify type and duration 

Specify duration 

Specify applicable taxes 

Item Description 
A. Professional Fees / Remuneration 
(Form Attached Below) 
B. Software Licenses and 
Subscriptions 
C. Deployment Costs (With Cloud 
Hosting) 
D. Deployment Costs (Without Cloud 
Hosting) 
E. Training and Support Costs 
F. Implementation and 
Commissioning 
G. Maintenance and After-Sales 
Support 
H. Taxes (GST, Income Tax etc.) 
I. Other Costs (Specify) 
Total Estimated Cost (With Cloud 
Hosting) (A+B+C+E+F+G+H+I) 
Total Estimated Cost (Without Cloud 
Hosting) (A+B+D+E+F+G+H+I) 

Remuneration Costs (for each individual person) 

Item  

Cost   

A. Renumeration  
(exclusive of taxes)   

B. Tax Estimates – to be discussed and finalized at the negotiations if the contract is being 
awarded  

{insert type of tax, e.g. sales tax}  

{insert type of tax, e.g. income tax on non-
resident experts}  
{insert type of tax}  

Page 26 of 49 

  
  
  
 
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
Total estimated taxes  

 Total Remuneration Cost. Attached a separate table 
* Costs shall include all costs associated with completing the assignment, other than for travel that may be 
required in connection with any meetings or other activities related to the assignment, which must be pre-
approved by the Client (and will be reimbursed at actual). For such travel within Pakistan, the Client will 
reimburse (a) economy-class airfare, which the Consultant will be free to upgrade through at its own cost 
and (b) hotel stay at a 5-star facility. In the event any international travel is required, it shall also require 
pre-approval, and shall be benchmarked to the Federal Government’s policy in this regard (and any 
upgrades will be at the Consultant’s cost). For the avoidance of doubt, the Client shall not reimburse costs 
associated with Consultant’s staff travel to, and lodging expenses in, Islamabad for purposes of providing 
services to the Client.  

Page 27 of 49 

  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
Part V. FORM OF AGREEMENT FOR SERVICES 

     Form of  

AGREEMENT FOR SERVICES  

Between  

{name} 

And  

{name}  

 Date{} 

Page 28 of 49 

  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
This Agreement for Services (“Agreement”) is dated [insert date] (the “Effective Date”) and entered 
into between:  

[Name of entity], a [type of the entity] organized and existing under the laws of [specify jurisdiction], 
with its principal place of business at [specify address] (the “Client”), through its authorized 
representative;   
 and  

[Name of entity], a [type of the entity] organized and existing under the laws of [specify jurisdiction], 
with its principal place of business at [specify address] (the “Consultant”), through its authorized 
representative;  

each a “Party” and together the “Parties”.  

WHEREAS pursuant to the program an RFP titled “[insert name],” RFP No. [insert number] 

dated [insert date] had been shared with shortlisted firms for hiring of a firm;   

AND WHEREAS the Consultant has emerged as the successful bidder in response to the RFP 

and the terms and conditions for the engagement have been finalized between the Parties;  

NOW, THEREFORE, for and in consideration of the mutual covenants and agreements herein 

agreed upon, the Parties hereby agree as follows:  

Page 29 of 49 

  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
1.   DEFINITIONS  

a)  “Agreement” means the Agreement signed by the Parties and all the attached documents.  
b)  “Client” means the organization with which the selected Consultant signs the Agreement for the 

Services.  

c)  “Consultant” means any entity or person that may provide or provides the Services to the Client 

under the Agreement.  

d)  “Data Sheet” means such part of the Instructions to Consultants used to reflect specific conditions.  
e)  “Day” means calendar day.  
f)  “Government” means the Government of the Pakistan and all its associated departments, agencies, 
autonomous/semiautonomous bodies, local governments, boards, universities and similar other 
organizations.  

g)  “Instructions to Consultants” means the document which provides Consultants with all information 

needed to prepare their Proposals.  

h)  “Personnel” means professionals and support staff provided by the Consultant or by any Sub-

Consultant and assigned to perform the Services or any part thereof; “Foreign Personnel” means 
such professionals and support staff who at the time of being so provided had their domicile outside 
Pakistan; “Local Personnel” means such professionals and support staff who at the time of being so 
provided had their domicile inside Pakistan.  

i)  “Proposal” means the Technical Proposal and the Financial Proposal.  
j)  “RFP” means the Request for Proposal to be prepared by the Client for the selection of Consultants, 

based on the Standard RFP.  

k)  “Services” means the work to be performed by the Consultant pursuant to the Agreement. 
l)  “Terms of Reference” (TOR) means the document included in the RFP as Section 2 which explains 
the objectives, scope of work, activities, tasks to be performed, respective responsibilities of the 
Client and the Consultant, and expected results and deliverables of the assignment.  

2.  

SCOPE OF THE AGREEMENT; TERM OF AGREEMENT  

2.1 The Consultant shall perform the Services set out in Schedule A (Scope of Work) in 
accordance with terms and conditions of this Agreement.  

2.2 Unless terminated earlier pursuant to Section 12 or Section 13 of the Agreement, the 
Agreement shall remain valid from the Effective Date for a period of eight (08) weeks. The parties 
may mutually agree to extend the Agreement for a further period if deemed necessary for the 
effective completion of Services.   

3.  

PAYMENT; INVOICING  

3.1 Payment to the Consultant for Services provided shall be in the manner set forth in Schedule B 
(Payment Terms) to this Agreement.   

3.2 The Client shall make payments under the Agreement subject to the following conditions:  

Page 30 of 49 

  
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
(a)  Payments shall be made only after the Designated Officer certifies that the Services were 

evaluated and found to have been performed or provided in accordance with the terms of the 
Agreement. If after evaluation it is observed that the Consultant’s work requires further 
modification then the Consultant shall be provided additional days by the Client to make the 
required changes and resubmit their work;  

(b)  The Consultant’s request for payment shall be made to the Client in writing; accompanied by 
an invoice describing the Services performed delivered and documents required under the 
Agreement; and certifying fulfillment of all applicable obligations stipulated in the 
Agreement;  

(c)  The Client shall pay the properly invoiced amount within a period of forty-five (45) days after 
the date on which the Consultant submits a duly completed and valid invoice or claim to the 
Client;  

(d)  The Consultant shall submit such documents supporting the Consultant’s invoice or statement 

of account, as the Client may reasonably require.  

(e)  The Consultant shall provide the Client with the Consultant’s bank details such as bank name, 

bank address/branch, account name, and account number on its invoices or request for 
payment.  

3.3 For each day that there is a Delay on part of the Consultant, the Client shall deduct 0.5% of the 
value of the specific milestone in connection with which there is a Delay, which may extend to a 
maximum of 10% of such milestone payment.   

4.   CONSULTANT-RELATED PERSONS  

4.1 Key personnel of the Consultant that shall be engaged for provision of Services under this 
Agreement are set forth in Schedule C (Key Personnel) of this Agreement. With respect to other 
Consultant-Related Persons, the Consultant may propose staff on specific workstreams, the 
Consultant shall submit a copy of their curriculum vitae for the Client’s review and approval.  

4.2 The Client may request the withdrawal or replacement of any of the Consultant-Related 
Person(s) if the Client finds their qualifications and training to be inconsistent with the 
qualifications agreed with the Consultant and/or their performance to be inadequate.  

4.3 The withdrawal or replacement of the Consultant–Related Person shall be carried out as 
quickly as possible and in a manner that will not adversely affect the performance of obligations 
under the Agreement. All expenses related to the withdrawal or replacement of the Consultant’s 
personnel shall, in all cases, be borne exclusively by the Consultant.  

4.4 Prior to employing individuals or subcontractors to work under this Agreement, the Consultant 
shall, at its own expense, perform or cause to be performed the relevant background checks, and 
maintain, or cause to be maintained, the results of the background checks in its employee’s and its 

Page 31 of 49 

  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
subcontractor’s employee’s file in accordance with the applicable laws to ensure that reliable and 
competent individuals are selected.  

4.5 During the provision of the Services, if substitution of Consultant’s key personnel or experts is 
necessary, the Consultant shall propose other experts of at least the same level of qualifications for 
approval by the Client.  

4.6 The Consultant shall ensure that all Consultant-Related Persons behave in accordance with 
applicable laws, generally acceptable professional standards, and good industry practice in 
performing the Services under the Agreement.  

5.   CONSULTANT’S UNDERTAKING  

5.1 The Consultant shall immediately notify the Client in writing if:  

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

(d) 

(e) 

(f) 

(g) 

(h) 

the Consultant merges with, acquires, or transfers all or substantially all of its assets to 
another entity;  

any person or entity acquires directly or indirectly the majority of the beneficial ownership 
rights in the Consultant;  

any person or entity acquires directly or indirectly the power to elect a majority of the 
board of directors of the Consultant, or otherwise acquires directly or indirectly the power 
to control the policy making decisions of the Consultant;  

the Consultant is dissolved; applies for insolvency or bankruptcy; or otherwise admits in 
writing its inability to pay its outstanding obligations or liabilities;  

the Consultant is administratively or judicially declared insolvent or bankrupt, placed 
under receivership, administration, rehabilitation or liquidation or any other such 
equivalent process;  

the Consultant’s financial condition becomes significantly unstable and threatens to 
jeopardize the Consultant’s ability to perform its obligations under the Agreement;  

the Consultant loses any license or authorization required to perform its obligations under 
the Agreement; or  

the Consultant faces any event beyond its control or a situation that makes it impossible 
for it to carry out its obligations under the Agreement.  

If any of the events set forth in Clause 5.1 occur, the Parties shall, without prejudice to 

5.2 
any other provision of the Agreement, use reasonable endeavors to agree alternative arrangements 
to ensure full performance of the Agreement.  

Page 32 of 49 

  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
The Consultant shall provide the Services in good faith, with due professional care and 

5.3 
skill and in a manner that meets or exceeds prevailing industry and professional standards and 
undertakes to ensure that the Services do not infringe any third-party trade secret, copy right, patent 
or trademark.  

5.4 
The Consultant shall obtain certificates, permits, approvals, licenses and other documents 
required under applicable laws, regulations and decrees which are required in order to perform the 
Services under the Agreement. If the Consultant requests the Client’s assistance in obtaining such 
permits, approvals, or licenses from local public authorities, the Client may exert reasonable efforts 
to assist the Consultant in completing such requirements in a timely and expeditious manner.  

The Consultant shall perform its obligations under this Agreement diligently, observe 

5.5 
good social management practices, and comply with relevant laws, regulations, decrees and orders 
concerning environmental protection, corporate social responsibility and employees of the 
Consultant engaged in performing the Services (including harassment and dissemination related 
laws).  

The Consultant shall observe the highest standard of ethics during the execution of this 

5.6 
Agreement. The Client reserves the right to terminate this Agreement (in addition to any other legal 
remedies) if it is established that the Consultant has engaged in any corrupt or fraudulent practices 
in the performance of the Services under this Agreement.   

6.   REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES  

6.1 The Consultant warrants and represents that:  

(a)  it has full capacity, authority and consent, including the consent of its parent company, 
where applicable, and that it possesses the necessary licenses, permits, and power to execute 
and perform its obligations under the Agreement;  

(b) the Agreement is executed by a duly authorized representative of the Consultant;  

(c)  as of the Effective Date, all information contained in the Consultant’s bid or proposal 
remains true, accurate and not misleading;  

(d) it is in compliance with, and shall continue to comply with, all applicable laws, rules, 
regulations, and lawful orders of public authorities of any jurisdiction in which the Services 
shall be performed under this Agreement;  

(e)  no claim is being asserted and no litigation, arbitration or administrative proceeding is 
presently in progress, pending or being threatened against the Consultant or any of its assets 
that could adversely affect the Consultant’s ability to perform the Services under the 
Agreement;  

(f)  it is not subject to any contractual obligation that would adversely affect the Consultant’s 
ability to perform the Services under the Agreement; nor has the Consultant done or omitted 

Page 33 of 49 

  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
to do anything that could adversely affect its assets, financial condition or position as a going 
business concern;  

(g)  it has not filed nor is it facing proceedings for winding up its business or for dissolution, 
insolvency, bankruptcy, or the appointment of a receiver, liquidator, administrator or similar 
officer in relation to any of the Consultant’s assets or revenue; and  

(h) it has undertaken all financial accounting and reporting activities required under the 
generally accepted accounting principles that apply to the Consultant and in the country 
where it is registered and has complied with applicable securities and tax laws and 
regulations.  

7.  

SOURCE OF INSTRUCTION  

Subject to Clause 7.2, the Consultant shall neither seek nor accept instructions from any 

7.1  
authority external to the Client in connection with the performance of its obligations under the 
Agreement. Should any authority external to the Client seek to impose any instructions concerning 
or restrictions on the Consultant’s performance under the Agreement, the Consultant shall 
promptly notify the Client. The Consultant shall not take any action in respect of the performance 
of its obligations under the Agreement that may adversely affect the interests of the Client, and the 
Consultant shall perform its obligations under the Agreement with the fullest regard to the interests 
of the Client.  

8.   CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION  

The Parties shall treat each other’s Confidential Information as confidential in accordance 

8.1  
with this Clause, use the Confidential Information solely for the purpose for which it was 
disclosed, and exert diligent efforts to safeguard and avoid unauthorized disclosure of the other 
Party’s Confidential Information to third parties without the disclosing Party’s prior written 
consent.  

8.2  
Unless the Client states otherwise, disclosures by the Client to the Consultant shall be 
deemed confidential. The Consultant may only disclose the Client’s Confidential Information to 
the Consultant-Related Persons who are directly involved and who need to know the information in 
providing the Services. The Consultant shall ensure that such Consultant-Related Persons are 
aware of and shall comply with the Consultant’s obligations as to confidentiality. For the 
avoidance of doubt any unauthorized disclosure of the Client’s Confidential Information by a 
Consultant-Related Person shall be deemed to be a breach of this Clause by the Consultant. The 
Client may, as it deems appropriate and in light of the particular Services to be performed by the 
Consultant request the Consultant to require any Consultant-Related Person to sign a 
confidentiality undertaking substantially similar to this Clause before commencing any work 
related to the Services covered by the Agreement.  

8.3  
information, including Confidential Information that:  

The obligations of confidentiality specified in this Clause shall not apply to any 

Page 34 of 49 

  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
(a)  is in the public domain at the date of this Agreement or subsequently becomes generally 
available to the public (other than as a result of its disclosure by the receiving Party or its 
representatives in breach of this Clause);  

(b) was made available to the receiving Party other than pursuant to a breach of confidence on a 
non-confidential basis before disclosure by the disclosing Party under this Agreement;  

(c)  the Parties agree in writing is not confidential or may be disclosed; and  

(d) is developed by or for the receiving Party independently of and without reference to any 

information disclosed by the disclosing Party.  

If the Consultant is or may be required to disclose Confidential Information belonging to 

8.4 
the Client pursuant to any applicable law, regulation or judicial or arbitral decision, it shall 
promptly notify the Client of the same and shall cooperate with the Client and use its best 
endeavors to prevent and/or limit the extent of disclosure.  

8.5 
applicable law, regulation or judicial or arbitral decision.  

The Client may disclose Confidential Information to the extent required pursuant to any 

8.6 
These obligations and restrictions of confidentiality shall be effective during the term of 
the Agreement, including any extension thereof, and, unless otherwise provided in the Agreement, 
shall remain effective following any termination of the Agreement. If requested by the disclosing 
Party, the receiving Party shall return to the disclosing Party all Confidential Information in written 
form or destroy or (to the extent technically practicable) permanently erase all Confidential 
Information (or copy thereof) provided to the receiving Party in written or electronic form; save to 
the extent that the receiving Party is required to retain such Confidential Information (or a copy 
thereof) by applicable law, rule or regulation, or to the extent that such information is contained in 
any computer records or files which have been created pursuant to the receiving Party’s automatic 
archiving and back-up procedures. To the extent that the receiving Party retains any such 
Confidential Information in accordance with this provision, the confidentiality obligations set out 
herein shall continue to apply with respect to such Confidential Information.  

9.   CONFLICT OF INTEREST  

9.1 The Consultant shall ensure that the key personnel and other experts working on specific 
assignments avoid, during the term of the Agreement, carrying out any other assignments that may 
give rise to a conflict of interest with respect to the Consultant’s obligations under this Agreement.  

9.2 The Consultant warrants that at the time of execution of this Agreement, the key personnel and 
other experts who are expected to work on specific assignments are not engaged in any ongoing 
work that would violate this Clause. The Consultant shall disclose to the Client details of any such 
conflict of interest which may arise during the term of the Agreement.  

9.3 The Client shall undertake measures to manage actual or potential conflicts of interest, 
including termination of the Agreement, as circumstances may warrant. Such rights are without 

Page 35 of 49 

  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
prejudice to any other remedies or rights of action which have accrued or which may subsequently 
accrue to the Client in connection with the Agreement.  

9.4 The Consultant shall also share its conflict of interest policy that is applicable when handling 
such assignments as contemplated under this Agreement.   

9.5 For the purposes of this Clause, “conflict of interest” means any situation in which a party has 
interests or relationships that could, or could be deemed to, improperly influence that party’s 
performance of official duties or responsibilities, contractual obligations, or compliance with 
applicable laws and regulations.  

10. USE OF DOCUMENTS; DOCUMENTS TO BE THE PROPERTY OF THE CLIENT  

10.1 All products, documents, materials, and information submitted to the Client, and all relevant 
data and supporting materials compiled in performing the Services, shall be the property of the 
Client, shall be used solely for purposes related to the Agreement, shall be made available for use 
or inspection by the Client at reasonable times and in reasonable places, shall be treated as 
confidential, and shall be delivered only to the Client’s Designated Officer on completion of 
Services under the Agreement.  

10.2 The Client shall be entitled to all intellectual property and other proprietary rights including, 
but not limited to, patents, copyrights, and trademarks, with regard to processes, inventions, ideas, 
know-how, or products, documents and other materials which the Consultant has developed for the 
Client under the Agreement and which bear a direct relation to or are produced or prepared or 
collected in consequence of, or during the course of, the performance of the Agreement. The 
Consultant acknowledges and agrees that such products, documents and other materials constitute 
works made for hire for the Client.  

10.3 To the extent that any such intellectual property or other proprietary rights consist of any 
intellectual property or other proprietary rights of the Consultant: (i) that pre-existed the 
performance by the Consultant of its obligations under the Agreement, or (ii) that the Consultant 
may develop or acquire, or may have developed or acquired, independently of the performance of 
its obligations under the Agreement, the Client does not and shall not claim any ownership interest 
thereto, and the Consultant grants to the Client a perpetual license to use such intellectual property 
or other proprietary rights solely for the purposes of and in accordance with the requirements of the 
Agreement.  

10.4 At the request of the Client, the Consultant shall take all necessary steps, execute all necessary 
documents and generally assist in securing such proprietary rights and transferring or licensing 
them to the Client in compliance with the requirements of the applicable law and of the Agreement.  

11. PUBLICITY, AND USE OF THE NAME, TRADEMARK AND LOGO  

11.1 Within fifteen (15) days of the execution of the Agreement the Consultant and the Client shall 
mutually determine, in writing, matters related to publicity, use of name, trademark and logo on 
work products and deliverables produced pursuant to the Services provided under this Agreement.  

Page 36 of 49 

  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
12. TERMINATION BY CLIENT  

Termination for convenience; change of circumstances  

12.1 The Client may terminate the Agreement in whole or in part at any time by submitting not less 
than thirty (30) days written Notice of such termination to the Consultant if the Client determines, 
in its sole and absolute discretion, that a termination is in its best interest or if the mandate, policies 
and/or funding of the Client applicable to the performance of the Agreement is curtailed, changed 
or terminated. Such Notice shall state that termination is for the Client’s convenience, the extent to 
which performance of Services is terminated, and the termination date. Unless otherwise instructed 
by the Client, the Consultant shall stop work immediately on receipt of Notice and follow the 
instructions of the Client.  

12.2 In the event of a termination for convenience, the Consultant shall be entitled to be paid for 
the Services satisfactorily and properly performed by the Consultant prior to the effective date of 
termination, provided however that the Client may advise the Consultant to conclude any ongoing 
assignments being performed by the Consultant.    

Termination for Force Majeure  

12.3 The Client may terminate the Agreement, by not less than thirty (30) days’ written Notice of 
termination to the Consultant if, as a result of Force Majeure, the Consultant is unable to perform a 
material portion of the Services for a continuous period of not less than ninety (90) days. In the 
event of termination for Force Majeure, the Consultant shall be entitled to be paid for Services 
satisfactorily and properly performed prior to the effective date of termination in accordance with 
the Agreement.  

12.4 The Client may, at any time before the effective date of termination, decide to withdraw the 
Notice to terminate issued by the Client pursuant to Clause 12.3 or issued by the Consultant 
pursuant to Clause 13.1 and notify thereof in writing to the Consultant if the event(s) of Force 
Majeure ceases to exist and the Consultant is able to resume its full performance under the 
Agreement  in which case the Consultant shall continue to perform its obligations under the 
Agreement  starting from the date determined by the Client.  

Termination for Default  

12.5 The Client may terminate the Agreement immediately by serving a written Notice to the 
Consultant specifying the reasons for the termination if:  

(a)  the Consultant undertakes legal proceedings to dissolve or wind up its business, or be declared 

bankrupt and/or insolvent;  

(b)  a creditor or encumbrancer attaches or takes possession of, or a distress, execution, 

sequestration or other such process is levied or enforced on or sued against, the whole or any 

Page 37 of 49 

  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
part of the Consultant’s assets and such attachment or process is not discharged within fifteen 
(15) days;  

(c)  there is a change of ownership or control with respect to the Consultant and the Parties cannot 

agree to an alternative arrangement in terms of Clause 5.2 of the Agreement;  

(d)  the Consultant otherwise loses legal capacity to Agreement;  

(e)  the Consultant:  

i.  breaches a material provision of the Agreement and fails to remedy such breach within 

thirty (30) days; or  

ii.  materially breaches any other provision of the Agreement twice or more time in a 

continuous six (6) month period and, in each case, fails to remedy the relevant breach 
within 30 days, and/or  

iii.  breaches any representations or warranties made under this Agreement and, in either 
case, if such breach is capable of remedy, fails to remedy such breach within a 
reasonable time period notified to it by the Client; or  

(f)  the Client determines that the Consultant or a Consultant-Related Person has committed or 
engaged in unlawful acts with respect to performance of Services under Agreement.  

13. TERMINATION BY THE CONSULTANT  

13.1 The Consultant may terminate the Agreement by giving not less than thirty (30) days’ written Notice 

to the Client:  

(a)  if the Client fails to pay any undisputed number of monies due to the Consultant pursuant to 
the Agreement, within ninety (90) days of receiving written Notice from the Consultant that 
such payment is overdue; or  

(b) if, as the result of Force Majeure, the Consultant is unable to perform a material portion of the 

Services for a period of not less than ninety (90) days.  

14. INDEMNIFICATION  

14.1 To the fullest extent permitted by law, the Consultant agrees to indemnify and hold harmless 
the Client from and against all suits, proceedings, claims, demands, losses and liability of any kind 
or nature brought by any third party against the Client, including, but not limited to, all litigation 
costs and expenses, attorney’s fees, settlement payments and damages, based on, arising from, or 
relating to:  

(a)  allegations or claims that the possession of or use by the Client of any patented device, any 
copyrighted  material,  or  any  other  goods,  property  or  services  provided  or  licensed  to  the 

Page 38 of 49 

  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
Client under the terms of the Agreement , in whole or in part, separately or in a combination 
contemplated by the Consultant’s published specifications therefor, or otherwise specifically 
approved by the Consultant, constitutes an infringement of any patent, copyright, trademark, 
or other intellectual property right of any third party; or  

(b)  any willful misconduct,  action, omission or gross  negligence of the Consultant,  or anyone 
directly or indirectly employed by them in the performance of the Agreement, which give rise 
to legal liability to anyone not a party to the Agreement, including, without limitation, claims 
and liability in the nature of a claim for workers’ compensation;  

provided  that,  the  liability  of  the  Consultant,  its  employees,  associated  consultants  and 
subcontractors, and all persons and entities affiliated or associated with the Consultant for losses, 
damages,  liabilities,  suits,  and  claims,  regardless  of  the  form  of  action  and  the  person  or  entity 
bringing such action, arising out of or in connection with this Agreement, shall not exceed, in the 
aggregate, the total amount of the fees paid by the Client in relation to this Agreement or any relevant 
work order to the Consultant for the Services.   

14.2 The Client shall inform the Consultant of any such suits, proceedings, claims, demands, losses and 

liability within a reasonable period of time after having received actual notice thereof.  

14.3 The obligations set out herein shall survive the expiration or termination of the Agreement.  

15. FORCE MAJEURE  

15.1 Neither Party shall be liable to the other for any Delay in performing or failure to perform its 
obligations under the Agreement if the Delay or failure is caused by Force Majeure.   

15.2 In the event of Force Majeure, the affected Party shall promptly notify the other Party in writing 
of  the  relevant  circumstances.  Such  notification  shall  include  the  nature  of  the  event  of  Force 
Majeure, the obligations the performance of which has been prevented as a result of the event of 
Force Majeure, the likely duration of the event of Force Majeure and the steps that the affected Party 
is taking to limit the effect of and to bring an end to the event of Force Majeure. Unless otherwise 
directed by the Client in writing, the Consultant shall continue to perform its obligations under the 
Agreement to the extent possible notwithstanding the existence of an event of Force Majeure and 
undertake reasonable alternative means to  perform  the obligations affected by the event  of Force 
Majeure.  The  affected  Party  shall  promptly  notify  the  other  Party  as  soon  as  the  event  of  Force 
Majeure ceases to exist and the affected Party is able to resume the performance of its obligations 
under the Agreement.  

15.3 Force Majeure shall not include (i) any event which is caused by the negligence or intentional 
action of a Party or such Party’s experts, subcontractors or agents or employees, nor (ii) any event 
which a diligent Party could reasonably have been expected to both take into account at the time of 
the  conclusion  of  this  Agreement,  and  avoid  or  overcome  in  the  carrying  out  of  its  obligations 
hereunder.  

Page 39 of 49 

  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
16. RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN THE PARTIES  

16.1 The Consultant is an independent contractor of the Client. The Agreement shall not create, nor 
be deemed to create, the relationship of employer and employee or principal and agent between the 
Client and the Consultant or the Consultant's employees, agents or any other persons engaged by the 
Consultant  to  perform  its  obligations  under  the  Agreement.  Accordingly,  neither  Party  shall  be 
authorized to act in the name or on behalf of, or otherwise bind the other Party, save as expressly 
permitted by the terms of the Agreement.  

17. GOVERNING LAW AND LANGUAGE  

17.1 This Agreement shall be governed and interpreted according to the laws of Pakistan without 
regard to conflict of laws principles.  

17.2  The  Agreement  is  in  English,  which shall  be  the  binding  and  controlling  language  on  matters 
relating  to  the  meaning  and/or  interpretation  of  the  Agreement,  unless  otherwise  specified  in  the 
Agreement.  Notices  and  other  correspondences  pertaining  to  the  Agreement  that  the  Parties  may 
exchange shall likewise be in English.  

18. SETTLEMENT OF DISPUTES  

18.1 The Client and the Consultant shall exert every effort to amicably resolve by mutual consultation 
disputes arising between them in connection with or as a result of the Agreement within thirty (30) 
days of either Party’s Notice of the dispute to the other. During this period, the Designated Officer 
and the Consultant’s personnel directly involved should first attempt in good faith to settle the dispute 
among  themselves  before  escalating  the  matter  to  senior  Client  management  and  their  respective 
counterpart/s within the Consultant.  

18.2  Should  efforts  to  resolve  disputes  amicably  under  the  preceding  Clause  fail,  any  dispute, 
controversy  or  claim  arising  out  or  relating  to  the  Agreement,  including  the  existence,  validity, 
interpretation or breach thereof or any dispute regarding non-contractual obligations arising out of 
or relating to it, shall be referred to and resolved through arbitration by a sole arbitrator under the 
Arbitration Act, 1940 or the applicable arbitration law in Pakistan at the time being in force.  

18.3 Pending resolution of any such disputes, the Parties shall continue to perform their respective 
obligations under the Agreement or otherwise adopt provisional measures to ensure uninterrupted 
delivery of the Service.  

19. AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE; NOTICES  

19.1  Each  Party  shall  designate  an  Authorized  Representative  that  shall  coordinate  between  the 
Client and the Consultant with respect to the implementation of this Agreement.  

Page 40 of 49 

  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
19.2 For individual workstreams under the Scope of Work, a Designated Officer may be specified 
by  the  Client  at  the  inception  of  the  assignment  who  shall  coordinate  all  matters  related  to  the 
performance of work.   

19.3 All Notices, information or other communications to be given by the Consultant to the Client 
under  the  Agreement  shall  be  given  to  the  Client’s  Authorized  Representative  (or,  in  relation  to 
particular workstreams, to Designated Officers), and any action required or permitted to be taken, 
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under the Agreement by the Consultant shall 
be taken or executed by the Consultant’s Authorized Representative.  

19.4 All Notices, information or other communications to be given by the Client to the Consultant 
under the Agreement shall be given to the Consultant’s Authorized Representative, and any action 
required or permitted to be taken, and any document required or permitted to be executed, under the 
Agreement by the Client shall be taken or executed by the Client’s Authorized Representative.  

19.5 Any Notices, information or other communications required under the Agreement shall be in 
writing and shall be delivered in person, by registered or certified mail, or through electronic mail.  

19.6 The Consultant shall not take any order, directive, or instruction from unauthorized Client staff. 
Questions relating to the authority of orders, directives or instructions given in the name of the Client 
should be directed to the Client’s Authorized Representative.   

Authorized Representatives of Client:  
Name  
phone no  
address 

Authorized Representative of the Consultant:  
Attention:  
Telephone:  
E-mail:  

19.7 Notices delivered in person shall be effective when delivered to the address specified above 
and personally received by the addressed Party’s Authorized Representative. Notices sent by 
registered or certified mail shall be effective on the date of delivery to the address specified 
hereunder, as shown in the return card for registered mail or the postmaster’s certification. 
Otherwise, Notices sent through electronic mails shall be effective upon successful transmission to 
the receiving Party.  

19.8 Either Party may designate a new Authorized Representative by serving written Notice on the 
other. The designation shall take effect immediately upon receipt of the Notice.  

20. TRANSFER AND SUBCONTRACTING  

Page 41 of 49 

  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
20.1 The Consultant shall not assign or transfer the Agreement or specific rights or obligations 
under it without the Client’s prior written consent.  

20.2 The Consultant shall obtain the Client’s written consent prior to entering into a subcontract for 
engaging a subcontractor for the performance of any part of the Services. Where the Client has 
consented to subcontracting, copies of each sub-contract shall, at the request of the Client, be sent 
by the Consultant to the Client as soon as reasonably practicable. Notwithstanding the foregoing, 
the Consultant shall be solely liable to the Client for the work of the subcontractor.  

20.3 The Client shall be entitled, in its sole discretion, to review the qualifications of any 
subcontractor and to reject any proposed subcontractor that the Client reasonably considers is not 
qualified to perform obligations under the Agreement. Any rejection or request for removal of a 
subcontractor by the Client shall not, in and of itself, entitle the Consultant to claim any Delays in 
the performance, or to assert any excuses f or the non-performance, of any of its obligations under 
the Agreement.  

20.4 To the extent that the Client has consented to subcontracting of all or part of the Services, the 
Consultant agrees that the obligations of the Consultant under the following Clauses, as applicable, 
shall be specifically incorporated into all subcontracts of any tier; (a) Conflict of Interest; (b) 
Confidential Information; (c) Audits and Investigations; and (d) Consultant’s Undertaking. For 
purposes of this Agreement the term “subcontract” shall mean any Agreement by the Consultant 
with any Consultant-Related Persons to perform a portion of the Services, as well as any 
Agreements between a subcontractor and its lower tier Consultants, vendors, suppliers, consultants, 
or other entities or persons.  

21. AMENDMENTS  

21.1 The Client and the Consultant shall not vary or modify the terms and conditions of the 
Agreement except by prior written amendment duly executed by the Parties.  

21.2 For the avoidance of doubt, the Consultant shall not be entitled to request price adjustments as 
a result of an increase in the Consultant’s actual or contingent costs or on any other similar 
grounds.  

21.3 If the Agreement shall be extended for additional periods in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the Agreement, the terms and conditions applicable to any such extended term of the 
Agreement shall be the same terms and conditions as set forth in the Agreement.  

22.  TAX  

22.1 Payments shall be made to the Consultant after compulsory deduction of all applicable taxes. 
The Consultant shall be responsible to pay any taxes, duties, fees or other impositions which may 
be levied on or in connection with the Agreement and performance of the Services in Pakistan or in 
any other country, the amount of which is deemed to have been included in the payment duly 
payable under the Agreement. The Client shall not be liable to reimburse any such taxes.  

Page 42 of 49 

  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
23. INSURANCE  

23.1 The Consultant shall take out and maintain at all times during the term of the Agreement and 
at its own cost appropriate insurance coverage, which coverage shall include such insurances as 
may be required by the law of the country of incorporation of the Consultant and/or the laws of the 
country in which the Services are to be performed.    

24. AUDITS AND INVESTIGATIONS  

24.1 The Client may conduct investigations relating to any aspect of the Agreement, the obligations 
performed under the Agreement, and the operations of the Consultant generally relating to non-
performance of the Agreement at any time during the Agreement term and for a period of three (3) 
years following the expiry or early termination of the Agreement.  

24.2 The Consultant shall keep and maintain for at least three (3) years after the expiry or early 
termination of the Agreement, or as long a period as may be agreed between the Parties, accurate 
records of the Agreement including the Services supplied under it and all payments made by the 
Client under the Agreement. The Consultant shall provide its full and timely cooperation with any 
such inspections, post-payment audits or investigations. Such cooperation shall include, but shall 
not be limited to, the Consultant’s obligation to make available its personnel and any relevant 
documentation for such purposes at reasonable times and on reasonable conditions and to grant to 
the Client access to the Consultant’s premises at reasonable times and on reasonable conditions in 
connection with such access to the Consultant’s personnel and relevant documentation. The 
Consultant shall require its agents, including, but not limited to, the Consultant’s attorneys, 
accountants or other advisers, to reasonably cooperate with any inspections, post-payment audits or 
investigations carried out by the Client hereunder.  

25. SUPERSESSION AND SEPARABILITY  

25.1 The Agreement supersedes all prior written or verbal Agreements between the Client and the 
Consultant and contains the reciprocal obligations of the Parties pertaining to or arising out of the 
delivery of the Service. However, this shall not excuse any Party from liability arising from fraud 
or fraudulent misrepresentation.  

25.2 Should any Clause, subparagraph or part of the Agreement be held by a court of competent 
jurisdiction to be invalid, unenforceable, or void, the decision shall not affect the validity of the 
entire Agreement or of those parts that are not so declared or otherwise remain capable of partial or 
separable performance.  

26. WAIVER  

26.1 The failure of either Party to insist upon strict performance of any provision of the 
Agreement; or the failure of either Party to exercise, or any Delay in exercising, any right or 
remedy under the Agreement shall not constitute a waiver of that right or remedy nor diminish the 
obligations established by the Agreement.  

Page 43 of 49 

  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
26.2 A waiver of any right or remedy arising from a breach of the Agreement shall not constitute a 
waiver of any right or remedy arising from any other or subsequent breach of the Agreement.  

27. COUNTERPART  

27.1 The Agreement may be executed in counterparts, each of which when executed and delivered 
shall constitute an original, but all counterparts together shall constitute one and the same 
instrument.  

IN WITNESS WHEREOF the Parties hereto, acting through their representatives thereunto duly 
authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names as of the date below 
written and for this Agreement to be executed with effect from the date above written.  

For and on behalf of [.]  
Signed by:  

For and on behalf of [.]  
Signed by:  

Name:  
Title/Position  

  Date:   

Name:  
Title/Position:  

  Date:  

  Signature:  
  Witnesses Name:   
Identification No.:   

Signature:  
Witnesses Name:   
Identification No.:  

  Signature:  
  Witnesses Name:   
Identification No.:  

Signature:  
Witnesses Name:   
Identification No.:  

Page 44 of 49 

  
  
  
 
  
  
     
  
 
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
Schedule A: Terms of Reference  

Page 45 of 49 

  
  
  
 
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
Schedule B: Payment Terms  

Sr.No 

Deliverable / Milestone 

Payment Schedule  
Timeline 

Amount 

1 

Detailed  project  plan  including 
methodology, 
timeline, 
milestone chart (Gantt), resource 
allocation. 

01  Week  after 
commencement 
of 
Assignment. 

the 

upon 

approval 

of 
20% 
inspection  report  methodology, 
implementation  plan  (including 
milestone 
timelines), 
resource  & 
identification, 
responsibility matrix. 

2 

3 

4- International Collaboration 
(IC) Management System 

2- Inventory Management 
System 
3- PSDP Management System 

Submission, Presentation & 
Approval of Draft: 
1- Vehicle Management System  03 Weeks after 
commencement 
of the 
Assignment  
05 Weeks after 
commencement 
of the 
Assignment  
06 Weeks after 
commencement 
of the 
Assignment  
08 Weeks after 
commencement 
of the 
Assignment  

6- Pakistan Agri Trade Portal 
with Dashboards 

5- Knowledge Management 
System (KMS) 

40% upon approval of 6 digital 
systems by the ministry. 

Training, Deployment, Go-
Live, Commissioning & UAT 
Sign off : 
1- Vehicle Management System 
2- Inventory Management 
System 
3- PSDP Management System 
4- International Collaboration 
(IC) Management System 
5- Pakistan Agri Trade Portal 
with Dashboards 
6- Knowledge Management 
System (KMS) 

12  Weeks  after 
commencement 
of the Assignment 

40% upon approval of 
successful deployment, Test 
Running, training and 
troubleshooting of these 6 
digital systems of the ministry 

Page 46 of 49 

 
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
Schedule C: Key Personnel  

Role 
Project 
Manager 

Business 
Analyst 

in  Project 

Education 
Master’s 
Management, 
Computer  Science,  or 
related field 

Bachelor’s  /  Master’s 
in CS / IT or relevant 
field  

Data Scientist 
/ Engineer  

Bachelor’s/Master’s 
in  Computer  Science, 
Data  Engineering,  or 
Software 
Engineering, 
Science. 

Data 

Full Stack 
Developers 

Bachelor’s 
in 
Computer  Science  or 
Software Engineering 

Experience 
8–10 years in IT project 
management, preferably with 
large-scale government/ 
international or agriculture-
related projects. 
08 years of experience in 
Software / Web Development 
with minimum at least 03 
years of proven experience as 
Business Analyst / 
Requirement Engineer. 
Experience in Agri 
Commodity  
Trading(National and 
International). 
5+  years  in  ETL  pipelines, 
API integration, and database 
(PostgreSQL, 
management 
MySQL, MongoDB). 

in 

years 

Angular), 

4–6 
statistical 
predictive 
modeling, 
analytics,  and  visualization 
(Python,  R,  Power  BI, 
Tableau, or Dash). 
6+  years  of  demonstrated 
proficiency 
front-end 
in 
technologies  (HTML,  CSS, 
JavaScript,  and  frameworks 
such  as  Django/Flask,  React, 
or 
back-end 
development  (PHP,  Python, 
Java,  Node.js),  REST/Fast 
database 
APIs, 
technologies 
(SQL/NoSQL, 
e.g.,  MySQL,  MongoDB). 
Candidates must also possess 
strong  knowledge  of  version 
control  systems  (Git),  cloud 
(AWS,  Azure), 
platforms 
authentication  mechanisms, 
and 
architecture 
design.  Experience  with 
server-side 
microservices, 

secure 

and 

Certification 
PMP,  PRINCE  2,  or 
Agile/Scrum  Master 
certification 
preferred 

of 

Knowledge 
agriculture/trade 
datasets,  Designing 
interactive 
Dashboard. 
Experience 
in 
forecasting  and  trend 
analysis. 

. 

Page 47 of 49 

 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
architecture,  and  cloud-based 
is 
backend 
preferred. 

development 

Cloud/DevOps 
Engineer  

Bachelor’s 
in 
Computer  Science  or 
Information Systems 

4–6  years  in  cloud  hosting 
(AWS,  Azure,  GCP),  CI/CD, 
Docker/Kubernetes. 

Cloud 
certification 
(AWS,  Azure,  or 
GCP) preferred 

Page 48 of 49 

 
 
Part VI. INTEGRITY PACT 
DECLARATION OF FEES, COMMISSION AND BROKERAGE ETC.  
PAYABLE BY THE SUPPLIERS OF GOODS, SERVICES & WORKS IN 
CONTRACTS WORTH RS. 10.00 MILLION OR MORE  

Contract No.________________ Dated __________________  
Contract Value: ________________  
Contract Title: _________________  

………………………………… [name of Supplier] hereby declares that it has not obtained or 
induced the procurement of any contract, right, interest, privilege or other obligation or benefit 
from Government of Pakistan (GoP) or any administrative subdivision or agency thereof or any 
other entity owned or controlled by GoP through any corrupt business practice.  

 Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, [name of Supplier] represents and warrants that 
it has fully declared the brokerage, commission, fees etc. paid or payable to anyone and not given 
or agreed to give and shall not give or agree to give to anyone within or outside Pakistan either 
directly or indirectly through any natural or juridical person, including its affiliate, agent, 
associate, broker, consultant, director, promoter, shareholder, sponsor or subsidiary, any 
commission, gratification, bribe, finder’s fee or kickback, whether described as consultation fee 
or otherwise, with the object of obtaining or inducing the procurement of a contract, right, 
interest, privilege or other obligation or benefit in whatsoever form from GoP,  except that which 
has been expressly declared pursuant hereto.  

 [name of Supplier] certifies that it has made and will make full disclosure of all agreements and 
arrangements with all persons in respect of or related to the transaction with GoP and has not 
taken any action or will not take any action to circumvent the above declaration, representation 
or warranty.  

 [name of Supplier] accepts full responsibility and strict liability for making any false declaration, 
not making full disclosure, misrepresenting facts or taking any action likely to defeat the purpose 
of this declaration, representation and warranty. It agrees that any contract, right, interest, 
privilege or other obligation or benefit obtained or procured as aforesaid shall, without prejudice 
to any other rights and remedies available to GoP under any law, contract or other instrument, be 
voidable at the option of GoP.  

 Notwithstanding any rights and remedies exercised by GoP in this regard, [name of Supplier] 
agrees to indemnify GoP for any loss or damage incurred by it on account of its corrupt business 
practices and further pay compensation to GoP in an amount equivalent to ten time the sum of 
any commission, gratification, bribe, finder’s fee or kickback given by [name of Supplier] as 
aforesaid for the purpose of obtaining or inducing the procurement of any contract, right, interest, 
privilege or other obligation or benefit in whatsoever form from GoP.  

Name of Client: ………………    Name of Service Provider: …………  

Signature: ……………………  

Signature: 

…………………………   

Page 49 of 49 

 
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
   
  
  
